There is the case where a monk, having gone to the wilderness, to the shade of a tree, or to an empty building, sits down folding his legs crosswise, holding his body erect, and setting mindfulness to the fore.

Breathing in long, he discerns, I am breathing in long. Breathing out long, he discerns, I am breathing out long.

Breathing in short, he discerns, I am breathing in short. Breathing out short, he discerns, I am breathing out short.

He trains himself, I will breathe in sensitive to the entire body. He trains himself, I will breathe out sensitive to the entire body.

He trains himself, I will breathe in calming bodily fabrication. He trains himself, I will breathe out calming bodily fabrication.

He trains himself, I will breathe in sensitive to rapture. He trains himself, I will breathe out sensitive to rapture.

He trains himself, I will breathe in sensitive to pleasure. He trains himself, I will breathe out sensitive to pleasure.

He trains himself, I will breathe in sensitive to mental fabrication. He trains himself, I will breathe out sensitive to mental fabrication.

He trains himself, I will breathe in calming mental fabrication. He trains himself, I will breathe out calming mental fabrication.

He trains himself, I will breathe in sensitive to the mind. He trains himself, I will breathe out sensitive to the mind.

He trains himself, I will breathe in satisfying the mind. He trains himself, I will breathe out satisfying the mind.

He trains himself, I will breathe in steadying the mind. He trains himself, I will breathe out steadying the mind.

He trains himself, I will breathe in releasing the mind. He trains himself, I will breathe out releasing the mind.

He trains himself, I will breathe in focusing on inconstancy. He trains himself, I will breathe out focusing on inconstancy.

He trains himself, I will breathe in focusing on dispassion. He trains himself, I will breathe out focusing on dispassion.

He trains himself, I will breathe in focusing on cessation. He trains himself, I will breathe out focusing on cessation.

He trains himself, I will breathe in focusing on relinquishment. He trains himself, I will breathe out focusing on relinquishment.

This is how mindfulness of in-and-out breathing is developed and pursued so as to be of great fruit, of great benefit.
