Take a long and deep breath. As you exhale, move attention to the base of your spine. Feel the weight of your body resting on your root chakra, your chakra of support and belonging.

See your root chakra connecting you to the ground below. Breathe into your roots and see them taking in pranic energy and nourishment from the Earth.

Visualize the color red. See your roots slowly becoming red, grounding you in the here and now. Feel the Earth supporting your existence and your being unconditionally.

Rest in the awareness. When ready, move your attention to your lower abdomen, just below your navel, to your sacral or passion chakra, the seat of your creative impulse, emotional intelligence and pleasure.

Breathe into your chakra, and see it gently expand like ripples on the surface of a lake. See it flowing and moving freely like water.

Visualize the color orange bathing the ripples, and your chakra. Feel the water nourishing and satisfying all your needs and creative urges.

Rest in the awareness. See the two colors, red and orange, and feel the support and nourishment of both the root chakra and the sacral chakra.

Move your awareness up to the area below your sternum, between your chest and navel, to the solar plexus chakra, or your power chakra.

Breathe into your chakra, and see it fill up with fiery flames. Feel the transformational heat and energy of fire, which changes everything that crosses its path.

Visualize the color yellow bathing your chakra like bright sunshine, replenishing and nurturing it, like the sun nourishes all life on our planet. Feel your power getting stronger, power to serve, to help and to nurture other beings and your environment.

Rest in the awareness. See the three colors, red, orange and yellow, and feel the support, nourishment and strength of the root, sacral and solar plexus chakras.

When ready, bring your awareness up to the centre of your chest, to your heart chakra, the chakra of love, compassion and empathy.

Breathe into your chakra, and see it soften and lighten on your breath. Feel it expanding outward and gently caressing everything it touches, like moving air.

Visualize the color green, the rich, sprouting color of spring. Feel the fresh air renewing your chakra and the color green healing and providing new life to it. See your heart expanding and sending loving-kindness and compassion to all creation.

Rest in the awareness. See the four colors, red, orange, yellow and green and feel the support, nourishment, strength and love of the root, sacral, solar plexus and heart chakras.

Now, move up to your throat chakra, the chakra of self-expression and your personal truth.

Breathe into your chakra and see it sending soft vibrations into the space or ether. Visualize the color blue, the color of lapis lazuli, bathing your chakra. Feel the chakra opening and clearing, freeing your ability to express your truth.

Rest in the awareness. See the five colors, red, orange, yellow, green and blue, and feel the support, nourishment, strength, love and truth of the root, sacral, solar plexus, heart and throat chakras.

When you are ready, move awareness to the centre of your forehead, in between your eyebrows, to the third eye chakra, the chakra of intuition and insight.

Visualize a deep indigo color bathing your chakra, bringing clarity, insight and understanding, and heightening your intuition.

Rest in the awareness. See the six colors, red, orange, yellow, green, blue and indigo, and feel the support, nourishment, strength, love, truth and insight of the root, sacral, solar plexus, heart, throat and third eye chakras.

Move up to the crown chakra, at the top of your head, your connection to the higher consciousness or divine spirit.

Breathe into the chakra and feel it opening up to the sky above.

Visualize a violet or a purple light, softly bathing your crown chakra, and gently harmonizing you with the rest of creation. Feel your oneness with all there is.

Rest in the awareness. See the seven colors, red, orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo and violet, and feel the support, nourishment, strength, love, truth, insight and the connectedness of all seven chakras.

Bring your focus back to the rising and falling of your breath. Feel the perfection of the moment and bask in your own perfection. You are perfect in this very moment.

Continue focusing on the breath.

When you are ready, open your eyes and arise.
